---
title: "VimSafe - A VIM Password Safe (Vault) like tool"
layout: post
tags:
- Vim
- commandline
- password-vault
- project
image: /assets/images/vim-safe.svg
headerImage: true
projects: true
hidden: true # don't count this post in blog pagination
description: "VimSafe is a password keeper (password vault, password safe, ...) based on Vim."
category: project
author: antenore
externalLink: /vim-safe/
---

*VimSafe - A VIM Password Safe (Vault) like tool*

**Project Repository:** [https://gitlab.com/antenore/vim-safe](https://gitlab.com/antenore/vim-safe)

## Disclaimers

1. **Security Risk**: While VimSafe aims to provide a secure way to handle sensitive information, please be aware that no security measure is perfect. Use this tool at your own risk and always follow best practices for handling sensitive data.

2. **Neovim Compatibility**: Currently, VimSafe is not compatible with Neovim. A Neovim-compatible version is in development.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Functionalities](#functionalities)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Commands](#commands)
- [Mapping](#mapping)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Version and License](#version-and-license)

## Introduction

VimSafe is a password keeper (password vault, password safe) based on Vim. It utilizes Vim's built-in encryption capabilities (blowfish2) to securely store sensitive information such as passwords, API keys, and other confidential data directly within your Vim environment.

If you want to contribute (and/or teach us your Vim wizardry), you are more than welcome!

## Requirements

- Vim 7.4.401 or later (needed to use blowfish2 encryption)
- [Yankitute](https://github.com/someboddy/yankitute) plugin
- pwgen (optional, for password generation)

## Installation

Choose your preferred method to install VimSafe:

### Vim 8+ packages

For Vim version 8 or higher, use the built-in package management:

```shell
git clone https://gitlab.com/antenore/vim-safe.git ~/.vim/pack/vendor/start/vim-safe
vim -u NONE -c "helptags ~/.vim/pack/vendor/start/vim-safe/doc" -c q
```

### Other plugin managers

VimSafe is compatible with various plugin managers. Here are instructions for some popular ones:

#### Pathogen

```shell
git clone https://gitlab.com/antenore/vim-safe.git ~/.vim/bundle/vim-safe
```

In your vimrc:

```vim
call pathogen#infect()
syntax on
filetype plugin indent on
```

#### Vundle

```vim
call vundle#begin()
Plugin 'antenore/vim-safe'
call vundle#end()
```

#### vim-plug

```vim
call plug#begin()
Plug 'antenore/vim-safe'
call plug#end()
```

#### apt-vim

```bash
apt-vim install -y https://gitlab.com/antenore/vim-safe.git
```

## Functionalities

- Encryption using Vim's internal blowfish2 implementation
- Auto open/close folded elements
- Easy navigation between fields
- Insert new items
- Sort entries
- Copy username/password to system clipboard (requires +xterm_clipboard)
- Automatic password generation (using internal VSRandom function or external pwgen command)

## Usage

Format your vsafe file as follows:

```yml
# -=# VimSafe #=->
Group.SubGroup.SubSubGroup::
    User: "Raffaello"
    Password: "123456789"
    Url: "http://www.example.com/"
    Notes: ""
Group.xxx:
    User:
    Password:
    Url:
    Notes:
Group.xxx.yyy.zzz:
    User:
    Password:
    Url:
    Notes:
```

When you open a vsafe file, all elements except Groups/Subgroups are folded, and passwords are concealed with asterisks.

## Commands

| Shortcut           | Command / Description                                   |
| :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `<F4>`             | *AddVSafeEntry* Add a new entry                         |
| `<Tab>`, `<S-Tab>` | *VSafeNextField* Move between fields                    |
| `<F8>`             | *VPWGen* Generate a random password in the 'p' register |

## Mapping

- `<F1>` Copy username to system clipboard (requires +xterm_clipboard)
- `<F2>` Copy password to system clipboard (requires +xterm_clipboard)
- `<F4>` Add a new entry
- `<F5>` Sort the whole file
- `<F8>` Generate random password in the 'p' register
- `<Tab>` Move forward to the next field
- `<S-Tab>` Move backwards to the previous field
- `<CR>` Exit from insert mode

## Contributing

Contributions to VimSafe are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests, report bugs, or suggest new features through the [project's GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/antenore/vim-safe).

## Version and License

- **Version**: 1.0
- **Author**: Antenore `<antenore AT simbiosi dot org>`
- **License**: GPLv3

> VimSafe is an encrypted, text-only, password keeper
> Copyright (C) 2014 Antenore Gatta
>
> This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
> it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
> the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
> (at your option) any later version.
>
> This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
> but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
> MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
> GNU General Public License for more details.
>
> You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
> along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.